[Docs] Rearrange hooks docs, add notes about lua script config (#6207)
treeverse/lakeFS: docs/hooks/index.md

1. Notifying downstream consumers:
   Running a post-merge hook to trigger an Airflow DAG or to send a Webhook to an API, notifying it of the change that happened

For step-by-step examples of hooks in action check out the [lakeFS Quickstart](/quickstart/actions-and-hooks.html) and the [lakeFS samples repository](https://github.com/treeverse/lakeFS-samples/).

## Overview

> An _Action_ defines one or more _Hooks_ to execute. lakeFS supports three types of hook: 

Reviewer: Not a fan of caps to define things - that's why we capitalize.  Calling it an "Action" rather than an "action" here creates some expectation to call it an "Action" throughout documentation, which is a painful chore.

Author: ack. changed.

1. [Lua](./lua.html) - uses an embedded Lua VM

> 1. [Webhook](./webhooks.html) - makes REST call to external URL and waits for response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Webhook](./webhooks.html) - makes REST calls to an external URL and waits for response
```
or
```suggestion
1. [Webhook](./webhooks.html) - makes a REST call to an external URL and waits for response
```
or even
```suggestion
1. [Webhook](./webhooks.html) - REST call to external URL and waits for response
```

> 1. [Airflow](./airflow.html) - triggers a DAG in Airflow

Reviewer: While we're here, I think that we can improve the explanation of synchronicity of calls.  So consider replacing everything about "waits for a response" and here.

Maybe we can have a separate paragraph such as

> "Before" hooks must run successfully before their action.  If the hook fails, it aborts the action.  Lua hooks and Webhooks are _synchronous_, and lakeFS waits for them to run to completion.  Airflow hooks are _asynchronous_: lakeFS stops waiting as soon as Airflow accepts triggering the DAG.

@johnnyaug WDYT?

Author: I like this; added.

## Configuration

There are two parts to configuration an Action: 

1. Create an Action file and upload it to the lakeFS repository
2. Configure the hook(s) that you specified in the Action file. How these are configured will depend on the type of hook. 

### Action files

An **Action** is a list of Hooks with the same trigger configuration, i.e. an event will trigger all Hooks under an Action or none at all.

The Hooks under an Action are ordered and so is their execution.

> Before each hook execution the `if` boolean expression is evaluated. The expression can use `success()` which evaluate to true in case of no error was occurred while running the hook's actions. It can also use `failure()` which evaluate to true when previous step failed - can be used to report failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before each hook execution the `if` boolean expression is evaluated. The expression can use the functions `success()` and `failure()`, which return true if the hook's actions succeeded or failed, respectively.
```

> By default, when `if` is empty or omitted, the step will run only if no error occurred (same as evaluate of success function).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when `if` is empty or omitted, the step will run only if no error occurred (the same as `success()`).
```

#### Action File schema

| Property           | Description                                               | Data Type  | Required | Default Value                                                           |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `name               `| Identify the Action file                                  | String     | false    | If missing, filename is used instead                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `name               `| Identifes the Action file                                  | String     | false    | Action ilename                                    |
```

The other rows are all noun phrases.

> | `name               `| Identify the Action file                                  | String     | false    | If missing, filename is used instead                                    |

Reviewer: The previous table used "yes/no" to say whether or not something holds.

| `on                 `| List of events that will trigger the hooks                | List       | true     |                                                                         |
| `on<event>.branches `| Glob pattern list of branches that triggers the hooks     | List       | false    | **Not applicable to Tag events.** If empty, Action runs on all branches |
| `hooks              `| List of hooks to be executed                              | List       | true     |                                                                         |

> | `hook.id            `| ID of the hook, must be unique within the action.         | String     | true     |                                                                         |

Reviewer: This is really confusing: it uses code quotes `` `...` ``, but AFAIR the word "`hook`" never appears in the required YAML structure; instead, each element under `hooks` has these fields.

| `hook.type          `| Type of the hook ([types](#hook-types))                   | String     | true     |                                                                         |

> | `hook.description   `| Optional description for the hook                         | String     | false    |                                                                         |

Reviewer: Strange: We both say "optional" and that it's not required.

Author: thanks. Fixed.

| `hook.if            `| Expression that will be evaluated before execute the hook | String     | false    | No value is the same as evaluate `success()`                            |
| `hook.properties    `| Hook's specific configuration, see [Lua](./lua.md#action-file-lua-hook-properties), [WebHook](./webhooks.md#action-file-webhook-properties), and [Airflow](./airflow.md#action-file-airflow-hook-properties) for details                             | Dictionary | true     |                                                                         |

> #### Example Action File

Reviewer: Examples should use `example.com` or another [RFC 6761](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6761) domain.  domain.io is already registered to some... domain tracking company.

Author: fixed.

1. Notifying downstream consumers:
   Running a post-merge hook to trigger an Airflow DAG or to send a Webhook to an API, notifying it of the change that happened

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we add data validations as a use case?

Author: sure, feel free, or we can leave it for another PR - the scope of this one is creeping ;)

Reviewer 2: Understood, so lets open a new issue for this
